From:             "Alan S. White" <white@apollo.umenfa.maine.edu>
To:               kimball@apollo.umenfa.maine.edu,
              nelson@apollo.umenfa.maine.edu,
              hunter@apollo.umenfa.maine.edu,
              jones@apollo.umenfa.maine.edu,
              "Jack Witham" <rfy395@maine.MAINE.EDU>
Date sent:        Thu, 27 Mar 1997 10:47:23 -0500
Subject:          Re: TI Regeneration Discussion
Priority:         normal

I haven't had a chance to read the regen text in any depth, but a
quick reading brought up a couple of questions.  First, it seems that
the entire approach is designed to sample density.  I'm not sure
density is as important as growth in small stems.  Density would be
most important if there were lots of recruitment, which doesn't seem
to be the case.  Perhaps it is important if there is lots of
recruitment into a larger size class but that's difficult to detemine
if you aren't using plots measured earlier.  On the other hand,
growth would focus on sampling indiviuals (plots wouldn't be
necessary), which could fit into any size gap, but measuring growth
is only possible by destructive sampling, use of bud scars (ht
growth) on accessible trees, or cores on saplings of sufficient size.
 Second, matching the earlier sampling scheme is  not absolutely
necessary.  It is most important if you are going to use the earlier
data in a statistical comparison.  However, if you need to implement
a radically different scheme to accomodate gaps, the main concern
would be to see how the new scheme estimated density in the control
areas and compare that to the old density measures for the same
areas.  Unfortunately, you wouldn't know the relationship between old
and new sampling schemes until you had actually done it.  That's my
two bits worth of caution without any good suggestion!  Off to sample
ponderosa pine, Douglas-fir, southwestern white pine, etc. in the
Santa Catalina Mountains on another 75-degree sunny day. . . Alan

Alan S. White
Dept. of Forest Ecosystem Science
5755 Nutting Hall
University of Maine
Orono, ME 04469-5755
Telephone: (207)581-2851
FAX: (207)581-4257
